
# Amazon Simple Storage Service(S3)
* S3 is an object storage service.
* It offers: Scalability , 
* S3 is a key value store
Key -Name of the file(object)
Value - The content of the file(object)
* S3 has an indefinate storage(It expands storage according to your need)
* S3 allows to store objects(files) in buckets.
* All bucket must has global unique name (Nobody can use the same bukect name twice)
* When creating a buckets:
    * Buckets name cannot be empty
    * NO uppercase and underscore
    * Must only have lowercase or numbers
    * Min of 3 characters
    * Max of 63 charachers
    * Not looks like an IP address  
* Even though S3 is a global view, we have to specify a specific region when creatiing a buckets 
* All objects has a max size of 5TB storage space.
* If object size more than 5TB, AWS will use multi-part upload.

## METADATA
* Metadata is a set of name-value pairs.Types are: 
    * System-Defined Objets Metadata: Automatic Created by AWS 
    * User-Defined Objects Metadata: Name always start with [x-amz-meta]
Note: Every resources created ia own by the root user 

# Amazon S3 Versioning 
* Versioning means keeping mutiple variant of an onbject in the same bucket. 
* When you enable versioning on a bucket, you can easily recover from unintended user actions (e.g deletion or overwrite)
* When you overwrite an objects, it will create version ID for the objects.
* Versioning is done at the bucket level.
* Buckets ststes
    * Unversioned- Not version 
    * Versioning- enabled
    * Versioning suspended- Once versioning is enable is cannot the disabled, but it can be suspended. 
*Note 
Once versioning is enabled on a bucket, it cannot be disabled
Versioning uses more space. 
The first version of every objects, the verion id is NULL 

# Amazon S3 Server Access Logging
* Server access logging provides detailed records of anything done in an S3 bucket
* S3 server access login is enabled at the bucket level.
* It used for security and access audit purposes.
* When S3 server accces login is enebaled,  every request made to the s3 bucket from any account will be logged into another S3 bucket. 
* This means that we need to create a specific bucket for server access logging 
    Notes: - It better to anable versioning in this new bucket.
           - Also enable MFA DELETE becuae it asks for MFA before anayone can delete anaything in this bucket. 
* Both authorized and unauthorized attempt will be loggen when S3 server access is enabeled.

## Amazon S3 Storage Classes/Tiers
Ama
each object in Amazon s3 has diff sro
 # 

# CREATE BUCKET IN AWS CLI 
* Create Bucket
 aws s3 mb s3://temi1997/

* Put File in s3 Bucket
$ aws s3 cp Devops/index.html s3://temi1997/

* Bucket Policys
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicRead",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "*"
            },
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:GetObjectVersion"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::temi1997/*"
        }
    ]
}
